


Year : 2021
Place : Zürich, Switzerland
Person Role : Robotic motion planning for various spraying methods and implementing segmentation for construction on-site.

Instructors : Daniela Mitterberger, Selen Ercan Jenny, Eliott Sounigo, Ping-Hsun Tsai, Petrus Aejmelaeus-Lindström, David Jenny, Hannes Mayer
Intuitive Design Team : Carlos Wilkening, Foteini Salveridou, Lena Kitani, Priyank Soni
Design Team : Artemis Maneka, Guillaume Jami, Pascal Bach, Simon Griffioen
Fabrication Team : Beril Önalan, Chan Yen-Fen, Co Tsuruta, Evgenia Angelaki, Ilaria Giacomini, Liya Sunny Anthraper, Wei-Ting Chen, Wei Chengyuan

Supporting Technicians : Philippe Fleischmann, Michael Lyrenmann, Andi Reüsseer, Tobias Hartmann
Industry Partners : Eberhard, Giovanni Russo AG



Abstract
This is a 11-week project of the MAS ETH in Architecture and Digital Fabrication explores the potential of novel digital fabrication processes 
to implement a full-scale construction project at Rümlang, Zürich. The topic combines 2 Gramazio Kohler Research’s ongoing projects, 
Robotic Plaster Spraying and Human-Machine Collaboration, to propose new design and fabrication methodologies under the name of Intuitive 
Robotic Plastering. On one hand the concept of Human-Machine Collaboration(Intuitive Design) is too think how human gestures are used as a 
design tool expressing very singular and sensible design process. On the other hand, Robotic Plaster Spraying allows to think through a different 
paradigm where and how plaster is applied by iteration of fine and subtle layers on the wall.

https://videopress.com/v/BV8YGQzu
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://videopress.com/embed/BV8YGQzu" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<script src="https://videopress.com/videopress-iframe.js"></script>


Prototyping and Spraying method

Before moving to the site, Rümlang, a series of prototyping is conducted by spraying plaster on the 1.2m x 2m panels, 
which largely helps us understand the influence of parameters like velocity, angle and distance of spraying(end-effector distance) 
on the material behavior.

Three basic parameters are to develop the robotic spraying strategy.The end-effector distance and the velocity of spraying are mapped taking into account the recorded human gesture. 
Remapping these values according to the limitations of the robot and using feedback from the prototypes we initially did. 
As the robot moves closer to the wall, the velocity becomes higher and this is where the “carving” effect of the material becomes visible. 
In addition, we applied a Pitch end-effector angle on the ends of the spraying paths to achieve material fading out.


On-site construction and Segmentation
Global localization and local segmentation are two important parts of on-site fabrication. For the global localization it requires 11 
tower positions to finish the overall design and  the local segmenting , base on the robot reachability and the design, it requires 
2 to 4 axis positions to cover the design of current tower location.

The final result is the design and construction of an interior space within an existing structure at Rümlang. 
The room offers us approximate 200m² to apply an adaptive thin layer printing process with an interactive design procedure – 
where a robotic arm sprays plaster following recorded hand gestures, creating an interplay between human instructed and 
digitally controlled fabrication processes with new aesthetic of conventional material.






