

Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zürich (ETHZ)
Institute for Technology in Architecture


Year : 2021
Place : ETH Zürich, Switzerland

Author : Liya Sunny Anthraper & Wei-Ting Chen
Supervisors : Ana Anton, Eleni Skevaki and Lex Reiter
Collaboration: Gonzalo Casas and Philippe Fleischmann


Abstract
The method explored is by combining robotic 3D printing
white concrete and robotic glass placing into one system which can further rapid automation for the field.
The core challenge with this research is the integration of elements being placed while printing. To tackle this,
the research will develop a computational tool which allows to design different strategies for placing glass
elements while simultaneously printing concrete which is then translated through a series of prototypes. The
research would also focus on bridging the communication between both the robots and to design an end-effector
for this system. To illustrate this process the research concludes with a 1:1 scale transparent concrete wall that
allows us to reflect and evaluate the complete study.

Desgin 
we have identified certain rules and parameters while developing the
computational tool.The computational tool is further classified by defining the shape of the wall, deciding
distribution percentage, deforming the wall , path optimization and the final design is then sent for
fabrication. This tool will further help develop the complete workflow, design logics and application for
the fabrication

Robotic
The two fabrication processes are 3D Concrete printing and robotic Pick-and-Place. For 3D Concrete printing, using the
ABB IRB 6700 with concrete extrusion end-effector. And the robotic Pick-and-Place method is using ABB
IRB 4600 on overhead gantry and the primary tasks will be developing the end-effector gripper with the robotic
fabrication setup. In addition, multi-robot systems will aim to be developed with two main task:development of end-effector gripper,
and Coordination of two different robotic fabrication systems.

Demonstrator
The final design demonstrator is fabricated with a total of 324 glass test tubes. The
demonstrator showcases a doubly curved geometry with gradient distribution of the glass. For placing the glass elements with the robot , the studied limitation would result in 200 glass elements
in total instead of 324 glass elements. This result is derived from the limitation of the current setup as
there would be only one glass per layer the placing robot would be able to place.

Concrete extrusion is a continuous operation, therefore good coordination between the multi-robots is essential.
During this process there may be collisions between the robots, the recycled glass objects and concrete
extruder. To avoid this, the acceleration of the printing robot, the placing end-effector, collision zone of
the robots, and global design need to be executed in an efficient manner. As per the current setup there
is a limitation to the length of the wall that can be fabricated.



















